---
layout: post
title: Why Linux?
subtitle: Why I think Linux is better than Windows
share-description: Why I think Linux is better than Windows
cover-img: assets/img/posts/why-linux/tux.png
tags: [programming, linux]
before-content: toc.html
---

## What is Linux?

According to [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux), Linux is an operating system (OS)
kernel created by [Linux Torvalds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds). What is a 
kernel then? You can think of a kernel to an OS is like brain to a human (The
appearance of an OS corresponds to your appearance).

{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/why-linux/distros.png" description="Some of Linux 'distros'" %}

Then where is the operating system? There are hundreds if not thousands of operating systems
(or what people refer to as distros) made using Linux kernel! Some of the most popular ones
are like Android(yes, your phone runs in Linux), Ubuntu, Linux Mint, Elementary OS,
and Manjaro Linux.

## Isn't Linux only for Computer Geeks?

{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/why-linux/manjaro.jpg" description="My Linux desktop (Yes, I'm an anime fan)" %}

Absolutely not! You can see in the picture above that it is almost identifcal to your
Windows (the taskbar can be moved to bottom to better resemble Windows). In fact, if you
use your computer mostly for web browsing, you won't even notice the difference! 

## So.... Why should I switch to Linux?

The followings are from my personal experience on using Linux, 

### 1. Faster, much faster!
    
Due to the way Linux operates is different from Windows (like no automatic update during
startup), Linux is a lot faster than Windows especially in terms of booting. It takes
around 7 - 10 minutes for me to boot up my Windows, while it's less than 2 minutes for
me to boot up Linux! (My laptop is a bit old, so slower startup). Other than that,
opening an app in Linux is usually faster than Windows too.

### 2. Security 
    
{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/why-linux/share.jpg" description="source: <a href='https://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/desktop/worldwide' target='_blank'>statcounter</a>" %}

If you were to be a hacker, looking at the above image, which OS will you hack?
Clearly, because of larger markets, Windows and Mac OS will be primary target by them.
Besides, as Linux kernel source codes are openly published, if there is any bug or 
loophole, meny experienced programmers will solve them immediately! Thus, antivirus
programs are often not needed by OS based on Linux. (This also saves your computer 
resources like RAM and CPU)
    
### 3. Privacy

I'm sure you have heard of how Microsoft/Apple collects your data and sells them elsewhere.
It will never (almost never) happen in Linux-based OS! Not only that, the apps in Linux
will usually not do so as well. If you're a person concerning of your privacy, you should
definitely consider using Linux!

### 4. Free 

{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/why-linux/apps.jpg" description="Ubuntu App Store" %}

Linux apps are mostly opensource. What does it mean? The apps are free to be used (and 
modified, if you're a programmer like me) to everyone! and we all know, free is good. Besides,
unlike Windows which you need to purchase a license and Mac OS which only comes with Apple
products, Linux-based OS are all free to download! There's no licensing here.

### 5. Extensive customizability

{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/why-linux/arch.png" description="My Second Linux desktop" %}

Ever wanted to move your window buttons to your right? Think that Windows icons are not
nice? Feels like having different color theme? Linux-based OS provides all these! I
can even attach window buttons to the top panel. This was actually the main reason
I installed Linux initially (I wanted my desktop to be pretty).

{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/why-linux/kde-store.jpg" description="<a href='https://store.kde.org/browse?cat=104'>KDE Store</a>, where people get themes here" %}

In world of Linux, you can just switch the themes, icons, cursors in a click just like
how you switch themes in your phone. Most importantly, there is a huge community of Linux
users actively uploading different theme packs like the ones shown above. (You can even make
your linux desktop looks like Windows 11)

## Then why didn't people just use Linux instead of Windows or Mac OS

Well, beside the fact that Windows or Mac OS comes with your laptop/computer, Linux-based
OS do come with some drawbacks:

### 1. Not all apps are available

Though Linux has a lot of apps, but some apps like Microsoft Office (the only reason I have to
use Windows now) are not available in Linux-based OS. Although Linux does provide some emulators
like Wine to run Windows apps in Linux, it doesn't run as well as compared to in Windows.

### 2. Needs to learn

{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/why-linux/manjaro-store.jpg" description="Manjaro Appstore (It's an app manager actually)" %}

Well, most people are not familiar with Linux, so it will take some time to adapt to Linux.
However, once you get used to Linux, everything is just much more convenient than Windows! 
There's rarely anything like download an installer to install apps in your Linux too (as 
everything can be installed through an appstore like Ubuntu/Manjaro Appstore).

### 3. Things break sometimes

Linux-based OS is not that stable sometimes. There are times when certain apps behave strangely.
However, this rarely happens (at least from my experience), but if it happens, you can often
find a solution online through forums, or wait for the developers to fix them.
Furthermore, compare to Windows, I've never gotten a single app not responding during my Linux 
time!

<hr>

Beside those three reasons, I don't see why anyone should not use Linux! After using Linux-based
OS for some time, I will not switch back to Windows anymore unless I need to use some apps or
play some games.

## My Experience with Linux

I knew Linux not long after I started programming. However, the first time I really came into
contact with Linux was when I tried to move apps to center in Windows taskbar and 
moving window buttons to left (like Mac OS). Then I realized Linux could actually do all this!

{% include image.html url="https://res.cloudinary.com/canonical/image/fetch/f_auto,q_auto,fl_sanitize,c_fill,w_720/https://ubuntu.com/wp-content/uploads/d944/yaru-screenshot-large.jpg" description="Ubuntu Focal Fossa" %}

After some research, I decided to install my first Linux-based OS, Ubuntu (version 20.04, Focal
Fossa) alongside with Windows (dualbooting, so my laptop now has 2 OS). Guess what, I was 
mindblown! 🤯 Ubuntu was just so much better with Windows in terms of customizability and
speed.

However, after some time, I decided to upgrade to latest version, 20.10. It was when things
go wrong... Firstly, during installation, something went wrong and installation failed. 
I had to install everything by booting into recovery mode. The same thing happened when
I tried to upgrade the system to 21.04 😢. Furthermore, my dropdown terminal, xfce4-terminal
was also broken in Ubuntu. This was when I decided to leave Ubuntu completely.

At the same time, I also had Manjaro KDE installed (I triple boot my laptop). Overall, it
was a great experience with Manjaro KDE. After some time, there was an issue, though. 
Ubuntu's Grub couldn't boot into Manjaro. Luckily, I found a solution to this issue
on [stackexchange](https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/613195).

{% include image.html url="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/74/Arch_Linux_logo.svg/250px-Arch_Linux_logo.svg.png" description="Arch Linux" %}

When I left Ubuntu, I thought that I wanted to go for rolling release instead of point
release (Since my Manjaro never broke anyways). I also thought that I had sufficient experience, 
so I decided to go for Arch Linux. I couldn't say I regret exactly (it took me a few hours to
install) but the process was satisfying.

I've also tried Opensuse Tumbleweed at the same time, but I really didn't like its
Zypper package manager, so in the end I reinstalled Manjaro XFCE, which became my
main OS now. This is my journey in Linux.

## Last words

In the end, I settled for Arch-based Linux due to AUR and rolling release model which
was better to me as I do not need to worry things break during upgrade. Nevertheless,
if you're a Windows user and read up to this point, worry not, as long as you don't
do anything funny in Linux, chances are your system won't break most of the time.

At the same time, as I progress in Linux, my programming skills definitely improve along,
making me more confident in dealing with terminals and overall a better programmer. 