---
layout: post
title: My Story
subtitle: Who is this CS student?
share-description: What is the story behind this CS student?
cover-img: assets/img/posts/my-story/cover.jpg
tags: [life,school]
toc: true
---
I am a Malaysian who is enthusiastic in coding. I may be a small computer
geek, but unlike geeks in TV shows or legendaries who started coding since they were young,
I just started coding in 2019 ([My Programming Journey](./2021-07-04-my-programming-journey) if you're interested on how I started), when I was 18. 

## What about my life before programming?
### High School
{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/my-story/highschool.png" description="SMK Seri Bintang Utara, my high school" %}
Well, I was pretty much a normal student in high school. During high school, I dreamt to be
a theoretical physicist to study about subatomic particles and quantum physics or a
mathematician. However, this dream wasn't realistic in Malaysia, so I eventually decided to
study engineering of some fields. Moreover, though I had some talents in Mathematics, when
it came to deeper topics like Special Relativity, I realized I wasn't able to comprehend
well which directly resulted in me changing my dream.

##### Anything interesting about my high school life? 
- In the last 3 years of my high school (equivalent to grade 9 to 11), I got 2nd place in every exam, never raises, never drops.
- I was a prefect in high school.
- I managed to get 10A+ (That's equivalent to be in top 10 percentile for all 10 subjects I taking) in SPM. Frankly speaking, obtaining 10A+ was one of my proudest moments in my life.
- I was kinda active in Wushu during high school, joining competitions twice a year.

{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/my-story/competition.jpeg" description="My team winning first place in National BEGIN Innovation Competition (I'm the 4th from left)" %}
Throughout the 5 years of high school, I dedicated a lot of time in studying which eventually 
brought me some good results in exams. Nonetheless, I do spend time in extracurricular 
activities especially in joining Wushu, and some Math and Science competitions. 

### College
{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/my-story/college.png" description="UCSI College, my college" %}
Shortly after SPM, as I wasn't sure of what to study (I was still hesitant about engineering),
I chose to take A levels in UCSI College. It was also during this time that I began to take
up tutoring job, starting with juniors in my high school. 

##### Anything interesting about my college life? 
- I obtained Top in the World Awards for Mathematics during my AS examination. (scoring 100% in the test)
- I obtained 3A* in the final A2 examination.
- Beside part time tutoring, I also took up Wushu coach as side job.
- I started my programming journey during college.

Unfortunately, due to the part time jobs I took up, I became less active in extracurricular 
activities during my college time.

{% include image.html url="../assets/img/posts/my-story/uni.jpg" description="Asia Pacific University, my university" %}
At start, I was rather interested with Actuarial Science. Nevertheless, after learning 
Python, I believed that programming would be my true love. So after researching for
Malaysian universities that are famous in programming, I resolved to apply for
Asia Pacific University, my current university.