---
layout: post
title: New Site
subtitle: UI Overhaul and more!
share-description: Changing my site to a new url and a different framework
cover-img: assets/img/posts/new-site/index.jpg
tags: [update]
---

## An Update from me

So it has been quite some time since my last blog post. It wasn't because I disappear, sick (or die) or anything, but
I have decided to build up my own blogspot from scratch again using Vue instead of Jekyll.

## WHY???

Why indeed I am building it again? Well, the reason is simple, this site does not belong to me, or 
rather, I built it with a Jekyll theme, [Beautiful Jekyll](https://github.com/daattali/beautiful-jekyll). It is no doubt an amazing theme, looks great and easily customizable.
However, as I said, this theme is made by someone else, and Jekyll and Ruby is quite an alien
language to me, not to mention the Liquid framework used by Jekyll. Even when I wanted to change
some elements or styles, it will take a great amount of time for me to find out where is the element
or where is the styling rule.

All in all, I decided to build my own site from scratch, using a technology that I am more familiar
with, which is NPM and Vue using Nuxt. I managed to cook up something that is somewhat fancier than
this site after several months although it is still incomplete yet. Nevertheless, I am much more
satisfied with my new site compared to this csdiary, so this site will be closed as soon as
my csdiary.me dns expires and will remain as a site in hohshenyien.github.io github page.

After I finish with my new site, I will update the link here!